Git: 

Is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.

A distributed version-control system for tracking changes in source code during software development.

It is designed for coordinating work among programmers,and used to store code in repositeries.

It could be used as a server out of the box.

Git is used to coordinating the workflow among the members of a project team and track their progress over time.

It benefits both programmers and non-technical users by keeping track of their project files.

Git allows multiple users to work together without disrupting each other’s work.




Version control system:

This is a is a system that records all the modifications made to a file or set of data.

So that a specific version may be called up later if needed. 

The system makes sure that all the team members are working on the file’s latest version, and everyone can work simultaneously on the same project.




Local version control system:

Many people’s version-control method of choice is to copy files into another directory 
This approach is very common because it is so simple, 
but it is also incredibly error prone. 
It is easy to forget which directory you’re in and accidentally write to the wrong file or copy over files you don’t mean to.

To deal with this issue, programmers long ago developed local VCSs that had a simple database that kept all the changes to files under revision control.




Distributed version control system:

In a DVCS many of these systems deal pretty well with having several remote repositories they can work with,
 
so you can collaborate with different groups of people in different ways simultaneously within the same project.
 
This allows you to set up several types of workflows that aren’t possible in centralized systems, such as hierarchical models.





git commands

git clone [repo] --- Creates local copy of remote repository

git status --- Shows status of changes as untracked, modified or staged

git merge --- Merges remote branch into current local branch

git pull --- Downloads all history from the remote branch and merges into the current local branch

git push --- Pushes all the commits from the current local branch to its remote equivalent.

git checkout [branch] --- Switch to that branch

git checkout [branch] -b --- Create and checkout new branch

git merge [branch] ---	Merge [branch] into current branch

